.TH SPRY 1 "December 2025" "v0.106.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
spry \- SQLPage Markdown Notebook tool: emit SQL package, write sqlpage.json, or materialize filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spry
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B spry
is a tool responsible for managing SQLPage Markdown Notebooks. It allows you to:
.IP \[bu] 2
Emit SQL packages.
.IP \[bu]
Write `sqlpage.json` configuration.
.IP \[bu]
Materialize the filesystem based on definitions in `Spryfile.md`.
.PP
It is designed to streamline the development and deployment of SQLPage applications using a declarative markdown approach.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show the version number of the program and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Initialize the environment. Sets up `Spryfile.md` and `spry.ts` for a local development environment.
.TP
.B doctor
Check dependencies. Shows a list of required and optional dependencies and their availability status.
.TP
.B spc
SQLPage Content (spc) CLI. Use this command to manage content related to SQLPage.
.TP
.B task \fItaskId\fR
Execute a specific task. Use `spry task <taskId>` to execute a specific cell effectively running the task and its dependencies.
.TP
.B runbook
Runbook CLI. Executes all cells in the notebooks in DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) order, ensuring proper dependency resolution.
.TP
.B completions
Generate shell completions for your shell environment.
.TP
.B help \fI[command]\fR
Show this help message or the help for a specific sub-command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Initialize a new project:
.PP
.RS
$ spry init
.RE
.PP
.B Run a specific task:
.PP
.RS
$ spry task my-task-id
.RE
.PP
.B Check system dependencies:
.PP
.RS
$ spry doctor
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sqlpage (1)
